docs/producer.md, before:

# Producer

The Producer component in Kafkify allows you to send messages to Kafka topics.


## Workflow

The following sequence diagram illustrates how the Producer is initialized and how messages are sent.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client as Client/Service
    participant App as FastAPI App
    participant Adapter as Kafka Producer Adapter
    participant Kafka as Kafka Broker

    Note over App, Adapter: Startup Phase
    App->>Adapter: Init Config
    App->>Adapter: Start()
    Adapter->>Kafka: Connect

    Note over Client, Kafka: Sending Phase
    Client->>App: Trigger Event (e.g., API Call)
    App->>Adapter: send(topic, value, key)
    Adapter->>Kafka: Publish Message
    Kafka-->>Adapter: Acknowledgment (Ack)
    Adapter-->>App: Success
    App-->>Client: Response

    Note over App, Adapter: Shutdown Phase
    App->>Adapter: Stop()
    Adapter->>Kafka: Close Connection
```

## Usage

To use the producer:

1.  **Configure**: Create an instance of `KafkaProducerConfig`.
2.  **Instantiate**: Create an instance of `KafkaBaseProducerAdapter` with the config.
3.  **Start**: Call `await producer.start()` to connect to Kafka.
4.  **Send**: Call `await producer.send(topic, value, key)` to publish messages.
5.  **Stop**: Call `await producer.stop()` to close the connection.

See the [Producer Example](examples/producer.md) for a complete walkthrough.

# Components

## Configuration
The `KafkaProducerConfig` Pydantic model defines the available configuration options for the producer.

::: src.producers.infrastructure.config.producer_settings.KafkaProducerConfig

## Base Producer
The `BaseProducer` defines the interface for all producer implementations.

::: src.producers.domain.ports.base_producer.BaseProducer

## Kafka Adapter
The `KafkaBaseProducerAdapter` is the concrete implementation using `aiokafka`.

::: src.producers.infrastructure.adapters.base_producer_adapter.KafkaBaseProducerAdapter

Commit message:

docs: remove references to pydantic config models

docs/producer.md, after:

# Producer

The Producer component in Kafkify allows you to send messages to Kafka topics.


## Workflow

The following sequence diagram illustrates how the Producer is initialized and how messages are sent.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client as Client/Service
    participant App as FastAPI App
    participant Adapter as Kafka Producer Adapter
    participant Kafka as Kafka Broker

    Note over App, Adapter: Startup Phase
    App->>Adapter: Init Config
    App->>Adapter: Start()
    Adapter->>Kafka: Connect

    Note over Client, Kafka: Sending Phase
    Client->>App: Trigger Event (e.g., API Call)
    App->>Adapter: send(topic, value, key)
    Adapter->>Kafka: Publish Message
    Kafka-->>Adapter: Acknowledgment (Ack)
    Adapter-->>App: Success
    App-->>Client: Response

    Note over App, Adapter: Shutdown Phase
    App->>Adapter: Stop()
    Adapter->>Kafka: Close Connection
```

## Usage

To use the producer:

1.  **Configure**: Create a configuration dictionary with attributes supported by aiokafka.
2.  **Instantiate**: Create an instance of `KafkaBaseProducerAdapter` with the config.
3.  **Start**: Call `await producer.start()` to connect to Kafka.
4.  **Send**: Call `await producer.send(topic, value, key)` to publish messages.
5.  **Stop**: Call `await producer.stop()` to close the connection.

See the [Producer Example](examples/producer.md) for a complete walkthrough.

# Components

## Configuration
The configuration is passed as a dictionary. It supports all arguments accepted by `aiokafka.AIOKafkaProducer`.

Common options include:
- `bootstrap_servers`: list of 'host:port' strings or a single comma-separated string.
- `client_id`: client identifier for traceability.
- `acks`: acknowledgment level ('all', 0, 1).
- `request_timeout_ms`: timeout for requests in milliseconds.

Refer to the [aiokafka documentation](https://aiokafka.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#aiokafka.AIOKafkaProducer) for a full list of parameters.


## Base Producer
The `BaseProducer` defines the interface for all producer implementations.

::: src.producers.domain.ports.base_producer.BaseProducer

## Kafka Adapter
The `KafkaBaseProducerAdapter` is the concrete implementation using `aiokafka`.

::: src.producers.infrastructure.adapters.base_producer_adapter.KafkaBaseProducerAdapter
